CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to EventMesh

Welcome to EventMesh! This document is a guideline about how to contribute to EventMesh. If you find something incorrect
or missing, please leave comments / suggestions.

## Before you get started

### Setting up your development environment

You should have JDK installed in your operating system.

## Contributing

We are always very happy to have contributions, whether for typo fix, bug fix or big new features. Please do not ever
hesitate to ask a question or send a pull request.

We strongly value documentation and integration with other projects. We are very glad to accept improvements for these
aspects.

### GitHub workflow

We use the `develop` branch as the development branch, which indicates that this is an unstable branch.

Here are the workflow for contributors:

1. Fork to your own
2. Clone fork to local repository
3. Create a new branch and work on it
4. Keep your branch in sync
5. Commit your changes (make sure your commit message concise)
6. Push your commits to your forked repository
7. Create a pull request

Please follow [the pull request template](./.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md). Please make sure the PR has a
corresponding issue. [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/apache/incubator-eventmesh/issues)

After creating a PR, one or more reviewers will be assigned to the pull request. The reviewers will review the code.

Before merging a PR, squash any fix review feedback, typo, merged, and rebased sorts of commits. The final commit
message should be clear and concise.

### Open an issue / PR

We use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/apache/incubator-eventmesh/issues)
and [Pull Requests](https://github.com/apache/incubator-eventmesh/pulls) for trackers.

If you find a typo in a document, find a bug in code, or want new features, or want to give suggestions, you
can [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/apache/incubator-eventmesh/issues/new) to report it. Please follow the
guideline message in the issue template.

If you want to contribute, please follow the [contribution workflow](#github-workflow) and create a new pull request. If
your PR contains large changes, e.g. component refactor or new components, please write detailed documents about its
design and usage.

Note that a single pull request should not be too large. If heavy changes are required, it's better to separate the
changes to a few individual PRs.

### Code review

All code should be well reviewed by one or more committers. Some principles:

- Readability: Important code should be well-documented. Comply with our code style.
- Elegance: New functions, classes or components should be well-designed.
- Testability: Important code should be well-tested (high unit test coverage).

## Community

### Contact us

Commit message:

[ISSUE #456] Automatic License report and check

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to EventMesh

Welcome to EventMesh! This document is a guideline about how to contribute to EventMesh. If you find something incorrect
or missing, please leave comments / suggestions.

## Before you get started

### Setting up your development environment

You should have JDK installed in your operating system.

## Contributing

We are always very happy to have contributions, whether for typo fix, bug fix or big new features. Please do not ever
hesitate to ask a question or send a pull request.

We strongly value documentation and integration with other projects. We are very glad to accept improvements for these
aspects.

### GitHub workflow

We use the `develop` branch as the development branch, which indicates that this is an unstable branch.

Here are the workflow for contributors:

1. Fork to your own
2. Clone fork to local repository
3. Create a new branch and work on it
4. Keep your branch in sync
5. Commit your changes (make sure your commit message concise)
6. Push your commits to your forked repository
7. Create a pull request

Please follow [the pull request template](./.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md). Please make sure the PR has a
corresponding issue. [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/apache/incubator-eventmesh/issues)

After creating a PR, one or more reviewers will be assigned to the pull request. The reviewers will review the code.

Before merging a PR, squash any fix review feedback, typo, merged, and rebased sorts of commits. The final commit
message should be clear and concise.

### Open an issue / PR

We use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/apache/incubator-eventmesh/issues)
and [Pull Requests](https://github.com/apache/incubator-eventmesh/pulls) for trackers.

If you find a typo in a document, find a bug in code, or want new features, or want to give suggestions, you
can [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/apache/incubator-eventmesh/issues/new) to report it. Please follow the
guideline message in the issue template.

If you want to contribute, please follow the [contribution workflow](#github-workflow) and create a new pull request. If
your PR contains large changes, e.g. component refactor or new components, please write detailed documents about its
design and usage.

Note that a single pull request should not be too large. If heavy changes are required, it's better to separate the
changes to a few individual PRs.

### Code review

All code should be well reviewed by one or more committers. Some principles:

- Readability: Important code should be well-documented. Comply with our code style.
- Elegance: New functions, classes or components should be well-designed.
- Testability: Important code should be well-tested (high unit test coverage).

### License review

Eventmesh follow [Apache License 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html) policy. All source files should 
have the Apache License header added to the file header. Eventmesh use the [apache/skywalking-eyes](https://github.com/apache/skywalking-eyes) to check 
the source file header. And Eventmesh use [Gradle-License-Report](https://github.com/jk1/Gradle-License-Report) plugin to check for third-part dependencies. 
When you need to add a three-part dependency, you need to register the newly added dependency in tool/license/allowed-licenses.txt, and the newly 
added three-part libraries need to meet [ASF 3RD PARTY LICENSE POLICY
](https://apache.org/legal/resolved.html). It is highly recommended to communicate with Eventmesh community before you need to add 
a three-part library.

## Community

### Contact us
